[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7 min and
marketing with Pam my name is Pam dinner
I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement seven minutes at a time Andy
who attended my Global Content Marketing
workshop at content marketing world sent
me this question Pam I'm sitting here
going through my notes from CNW
highlighting what I need to take action
on when I get back to the office and I
have highlighted so much from your
presentation I do have one question do
you have a recommendation on how to
transition from a traditional marketing
program to a Content program without
being jarring for the audience well
first of all Andy this is what I call
Holy Grail question if I completely
cracked the nut I would say that I am
the chosen one who knows the untouchable
secret but here are two suggestions on
how you can approach this one is to
tacko it from the marketing an and the
other approach is to work from the
suicide so hear me out
tackle all marketing step number one you
need to do your homework understand how
existing marketing programs work and
perform what traditional marketing
programs or campaigns have the company
try how did that go is the marketing
team happy about it if not why not step
number two take the insight you gather
and identify some opportunities where
the content marketing can help if the
internal resistance on counter marketing
is I start small if people are open to
new ideas well then suggest and
recommend something with a bigger scope
step number three proposed ideas or your
recommendations to senior managers to
get your input communicate from the
perspective okay here are a couple of
things which are not working well in the
traditional marketing maybe just maybe
we can try a pilot something to see how
it may help or improve the existing
traditional marketing elements use the
word pilot so you don't come out looking
as if you are proposing a massive change
the thing is Andy I don't know what
traditional programs are not working in
your company assume you do a lot of
events
I'm guessing marketing managers gather
many business cards and the event team
passes them to the sales team but the
salespeople won't follow up
so maybe content can be used as a means
to nurture the prospects if the
prospects click on specific types of
content such as buying guide or feature
comparison list which may serve as a
clue that the prospect may be ready to
move on to the next stage then you can
pass that lead to the sales team because
you qualified it another example is mmm
say your company is still doing a lot of
traditional hey ads they don't know how
to run up the efforts on social media
one possibility will be you can do
research and where your target audiences
go and propose social media outreach
campaigns again it's a pilot magus three
to six months program and have the
specific performance metrics tied to the
campaigns okay another approach is to
leave existing traditional program as it
is and tackle content marketing from the
Silph site alright so the first step
that you can do is you will leave the
marketing team or marketing program the
way it is and you start with your sales
team by understanding their needs and
the concerns the most important thing is
to understand the assesses and the
methodology step number two draw do
processes and identify the types of
content they may need for each stage
step number three source content that
will help them share your content
recommendations with them and ask if
these content pieces are something
they'll you
no tell you yes or no and start with
five to ten salespeople first if your
sales team is big next step is to
identify the missing gap where the
existing content can't meet their needs
step number five propose a plan to
create content for the sales team if you
don't have budgets no problem ask them
if they can cough up some budget to help
you again start small
I try this approach with my sales team
before and I got a budget I needed to
create some sales Centrex content for
them so here's a quick summary of two
approaches Andi one approach is to
understand how existing traditional
marketing program works and the performs
find the gaps and see how content
marketing can fulfill the gap the other
approach is to understand the sales
teams needs and see if you can provide
content to address their needs I'm sure
that there are other ways to address
your questions if you provide additional
information to me maybe I can come up
with additional ideas okay in the
meantime I hope this helps
so good luck Andy again send me your
marketing questions or thoughts via
twitter at kam dinner keep hustling my
friends you've got this
[Music]
you